In this video, you will learn to
describe the vulnerability
assessment methodologies.
There is something
I mentioned before,
we normally use in the
pen testing world or scenarios,
but it could be something
that is separate from
the pen testing world and
this is vulnerability
assessment test.
So as I mentioned there is tools
that will exploit or will try
to give us vulnerabilities for
each of the systems that
we are dealing with.
So for example when we
have a system and we know
that that system runs on port
80 again Apache server on
the version 2.4 for example,
we could start
understanding each of
the exploits doing
a manual search but,
we can use open badge for example
to perform a automated
vulnerability assessment.
So the tool will be run on the on
the network from
your client and will
give us a lot of information
from possible exploits
that we could
use as band testers to
gain access to the system.
Now the important part of
the vulnerability assessment
methodology is
finish with the report,
finish with understanding
of the vulnerability.
The vulnerability
assessment report will
not exploit the vulnerability
identified on the system.
So only will give us the report,
only will give us
the information to exploit
that vulnerability but will
not exploit the
vulnerability itself.
So that's the next step if we're
dealing with a pen testing
methodology but if we're
talking about
vulnerability assessment
we're just dealing
with information that
could harm a system or could
be used to exploit a system,
not necessarily the
exploitation process
or that Bose
exploitation process.
That's something
important to understand.
So here is a weaker
scenario recommended
by some companies or
followed by song companies.
So the vulnerability
assessment or
the vulnerability scanning
could be done
quarterly or bi-monthly or
bi-weekly or on
monthly basis, why?
Because normally something
automated is something
that it's already
configured in a system,
it's already configuring
a tool and will be running
automatically on a regular basis
on the internal network.
So when we have
all the information regarding
vulnerability scanners,
we could start trying to patch
the systems or adding
security into the systems
for the vulnerabilities or
the exploits not be
longer available
for attackers to get off
access on the system.
Now to start or to test that
we're doing the
correct patching or
the correct
sanitisation of each of
the vulnerabilities that we
detect on the
vulnerability scanning,
normally we perform
a penetration testing process.
This could be done
annually for example,
in some occasions one or two
times per year it's
important or is
recommended but this case
the pen testers will take
not just the vulnerabilities
that you already know that
you have but probably will take
some additional exploits
or techniques,
for example the social
engineering techniques,
to try to exploit your systems.
So this is something that
will be manually made.
I mean there is
companies that will
bring consultants to deploy
or to execute pen testing.
In the vulnerability
assessment scenario,
there is not necessarily
a consultant but could be
a system generated information
on the vulnerable list
that you have.